---
title: Talks preview
categories:
  - conference
excerpt:
  Catch the early bird tickets until midnight on the 8th of October!
layout: post
---


h2. We are still waiting for confirmation of a couple of talks, and we will be announcing the schedule as soon as we have them, but for those who already want to know what's in the program this year, here you are a list of the talks and workshops confirmed so far


h3. some of the talks

* - "Make your models lose weight with the CQRS Diet", by Luismi Cavallé
* - "Mechanics, Myths, and Mints: Swallowing the Pair Programming Pill", by Jim Remsik
* - "Evented development with node.js and Ruby", by Christian Amor Kvalheim
* - "Documenting from the trenches", by Xavier Noria
* - "Simple Data visualization with Javascript", by Eli Kroumova
* - "Derailed Cucumber (or Cucumber outside Rails)", by Alan Kennedy & Borja Arias
* - "To localise or not to localise, that is the question", by Carlos Henández & Elizabeth Sánchez
* - "Dexy, a new approach to documenting your software", by Ana Nelson
* - "Neo4j: using graph databases with ruby on rails", by Pablo Delgado
* - "Geospatial capabilities in Ruby", by Javier de la Torre & Fernando Blat
* - "HTML5 WebSockets, Ruby and NodeJS", by Pedro Palazón
* - "Rails is not Enough", by Javier Ramírez
* - "Meet CouchDB", by Esti Álvarez

h3. full list of workshops

* - "Improv*ing Teamwork for Techies", by Jessie Shternshus
* - "Markup with style using Compass and the 960 framework", by Juanjo Andrés Prado
* - "Process AUtomation workshops", by Jorge Dias
* - "Caching: Speed up your application", by Jordi Romero


h3. tickets still available

By the way, Early Bird registration was a great success. A big thank you to all that already bought their tickets. You can still buy yout ticket, and you better do it soon because they are running out fast and we are sure you don't want to miss this year's conference!

The regular rate for the tickets is 170 euros (VAT included) and it covers access to the conference, coffee breaks, lunch for thursday and friday, the thursday evening tapas and fiesta, and a cool T-shirt. Go get yours before they finish!

