---
title: Compass and the 960 Framework
categories:
  - conference
  - workshop
excerpt:
  Juanjo Andrés Pardo's workshop
layout:
  talk

profile:
  name: Juanjo Andrés Pardo
  twitter: juanjoandres
  url: http://www.aentos.com/
  avatar: http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/654ae4e35f9319923229650260f46519
  description: |
    Juanjo worked in several biomedical engineering projects at the Institut für Technik der Informationsverabeitung(ITIV) in Karlsruhe, Germany, where he finished his M.Sc. degree. He went on deepen his knowledge in this field at the Forschungszentrum für Informatik(FZI) as a Research Assistant

    He has expent couple of years before cofounding aentos in programming .net and windows mobile and experimenting with different hardware plattforms. He is passionate about mobile technology, internet business, eHealth, and agile development.

---

h3. Purpose

CSS frameworks are great but they have disadvantages like the use of a non semantic naming-scheme in the markup. This problem and many others can be solved with SASS and Compass. The Compass community is growing. The first goal of this workshop is to feel comfortable with Compass and SASS and learn to use battle tested styles and mixins in our stylesheets. The second goal is to encourage the assistants to use this knowledge on their real life projects and join the community.

h3. Abstract

The first aproach of this workshop is to give a short introduction to SASS, 960 and Compass. The main point of the introduction is the understanding of the different pieces and how they work together, so that we can get our hands dirty ASAP. The duration of the introduction will depend on the experience of the attendes, but I guess it will take around 15 minutes.

The next hour we will be doing the following:

* Install and configure Compass and 960 in a previously given demo app.
* Starting from a given simple design in Photoshop, we´ll do a simple markup in HAML. (I may skip this step and give the solutions)
* Place correctly the components using our stylesheets and the 960 framework.
* Use of the SASS Power (import, mixins(functions) and variables) to get DRY and mantainable code in our stylesheets
* We´ll use different Compass mixins for CSS3. (borders, shadows, color gradients,...)
* Depending on the time we have, we will try different cool Compass mixins: Fancy-buttons, Sticky-footer, Sprites,...

