---
title: To localise or not to localise, that is the question
categories:
  - conference
  - talk
excerpt:
  Author's talk
layout:
  talk2

profile:
  name: Elizabeth Sánchez León
  name2: Carlos Hernández Medina
  twitter: esanchezleon
  twitter2: polimorfico
  url: http://e-sanchez.com/blog
  url2: https://endeve.com/
  avatar: http://a0.twimg.com/profile_images/310174756/DSC_6348_copia_bigger.jpg
  avatar2: http://www.gravatar.com/avatar/0cd354123bc9e80ca295e2c6457af17d
  description: |
      During her university training in the Translation field, Elizabeth Sánchez
      León discovered her passion for localisation. Based in Canary Islands, she
      has collaborated with companies like Microsoft, EA, Adobe or Quark in the
      linguistic and cultural adaptation of their products and services for the
      Spanish market. With more than 7 years of experience in this industry, now
      she is focused in the creation of Skoppos, a firm devoted to make
      companies and developers' life easier when entering a market which
      language they do not speak.

  description2: |
      He loves human interfaces and simple software. He is CEO of recrea, a software
      boutique based in Canary Islands, and specialized in Software Engineering and
      Usability since 2000. From then on, He has carried out numerous projects for
      public institutions and private companies. He is also cofounder and developer
      of endeve, an online invoicing web app for business and freelancers. He is
      fascinated by technology that makes life easier, books you can never forget
      and a city called Berlin.
---

We live in a globalised world where companies have to sell their products and services in the international market to make the most of their investments of time, money and resources. Especially with the current economic situation, companies of all industries are forced to become internationalized. Internet gives sotfware and web developers great opportunities and advantages. The process of translating a software or web application for different target countries or markets needs to be done with the help of specialists. The reason for that is that if the development team does not have experience or knowledge in subjects like globalisation (g11n), internationalisation (i18n) and localisation (l10n), the lack of a standarised solution could lead a project to its failure in terms of quality of the localised versions, poor sales or negative branding effects.

In this session we will talk of the need to develop applications for the international market from day 0, with statistics showing that even big corporations make more sales in foreign countries. Do you want to be out of the game?

In the second part we will explain the main methods and tools used nowadays to prepare ruby source code for translation and localisation.

We will end our presentation with the recommended best practices of localisation engineers, translators and testers for making the localisation process more easy, efficient, fast and cheap for everyone.

